now three years passed without war
between Syria and Israel then it came to
pass in the third year that Jehoshaphat
the king of Judah went down to visit the
king of Israel and the king of Israel
said to his servants do you know that
ramoth in Gilead is ours but we hesitate
to take it out of the hand of the king
of Syria so he sent to Jehoshaphat will
you go with me to fight at ramoth-gilead
I am as you are my people as your people
my horses as your horses please inquire
for the word of the Lord today then the
king of Israel gathered the prophets
together about four hundred men and said
to them
shall I go against ramoth-gilead to
fight or shall I refrain so they said go
up for the Lord will deliver it into the
hand of the king and Jehoshaphat said is
there not still a prophet of the Lord
here that we may inquire of him so the
king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat there
is still one man Mike heah the son of
imlah
by whom we may inquire of the Lord but I
hate him
because he does not prophesy good
concerning me but evil let not the king
say such things then the king of Israel
called an officer bring my K at the son
of imlah quickly the king of Israel and
Jehoshaphat the king of Judah having put
on their robes sat each on his throne at
a freshing floor at the entrance of the
gate of Samaria and all the prophets
prophesied before them now
Zedekiah the son of canaan had made
horns of iron for himself
and he said
thus says the Lord with these you shall
Gore the Syrians until they are
destroyed and all the prophets
prophesied so go up to ramoth-gilead and
prosper for the Lord will deliver it
into the Kings hand
then the messenger who had gone to calm
IKEA spoke to him now listen the words
of the prophets with one Accord
encouraged the king please let your word
be like the word of one of them and
speak encouragement and my Cara said as
the Lord lives whatever the Lord says to
me that I will speak then he came to the
king
Makia shall we go to war against
ramoth-gilead 'or shall we refrain go
and prosper for the Lord will deliver it
into the hand of the king
how many times shall I make you swear
that you tell me nothing but the truth
in the name of the Lord
I saw all Israel scattered on the
mountains as sheep that have no Shepherd
and the Lord said these have no master
let each returned to his house in peace
and the king of Israel said to
Jehoshaphat did I not tell you he would
not prophesy good - concerning me but
evil then my care said therefore hear
the word of the Lord I saw the Lord
sitting on his throne and all the host
of heaven standing by on his right hand
and on his left and the Lord said who
will persuade a hab to go up that he may
fall at ramoth-gilead so one spoke in
this manner and another spoke in that
manner then a spirit came forward and
stood before the Lord and said I will
persuade him
the Lord said to him in what way so he
said I will go out and be a lying spirit
in the mouth of all his prophets and the
Lord said you shall persuade him and
also prevail go out and do so therefore
look the Lord has put a lying spirit in
the mouth of all these prophets of yours
and the Lord has declared disaster
against you now Zedekiah the son of king
Ana went near and struck my care on the
cheek which way did the spirit from the
Lord go from me to speak to you indeed
you shall see on that day when you go
into an inner chamber to hide so the
king of Israel said
take mahalia and return him to amman the
governor of the city and to joash the
king's son and say thus says the king
put this fellow in prison and feed him
with bread of affliction and water of
affliction and tell I come in peace if
you ever return in peace the Lord has
not spoken by me
take heed all you people
[Music]
so the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat
the king of Judah went up to
ramoth-gilead
and the king of Israel said to Josh
Offit
I will disguise myself and go into
battle but you put on your robes so the
king of Israel disguised himself and
went into battle now the king of Syria
had commanded the thirty-two captains of
his chariots fight with no one small or
great but only with the king of Israel
so it was when the captains of the
chariots saw Jehoshaphat that they said
surely it is the king of Israel
therefore they turned aside to fight
against him and jahesh effect cried out
and it happened when the captains of the
chariot saw that it was not the king of
Israel but they turned backs in pursuing
now a certain man drew a bow at random
and struck the king of Israel between
the joints of his arm so he said to the
driver of his chariot turn around and
take me out of the battle for I am
wounded please and the king was propped
up in his chariot facing the Syrians and
died
and even blood ran out from the wound
onto the floor of the channel
then as the Sun was going down a shout
went throughout the art every man to his
city and every man to his own country so
the King died and was brought to Samaria
and they buried the king in Samaria
then someone washed the chariot at a
pool in Samaria and the dogs licked up
his blood while the hearts failed
according to the word of the Lord which
he had spoken now the rest of the acts
of a hat and all that he did the ivory
house which he built and all the cities
that he built are they not written in
the book of The Chronicles of the kings
of Israel so Ahab rested with his
father's then a huzzah his son reigned
in his place Jehoshaphat the son of ASA
had become king over Judah in the fourth
year of Ahab king of Israel Jehoshaphat
was 35 years old when he became King and
he reigned 25 years in Jerusalem his
mother's name was a tsuba the daughter
of Shilla and he walked in all the ways
of his father a sir he did not turn
aside from them doing what was right in
the eyes of the Lord
nevertheless the high places were not
taken away for the people offered
sacrifices
and burnt incense on the high places
also Jehoshaphat made peace with the
king of Israel now the rest of the acts
of Jehoshaphat the might that he showed
and how he made war are they not written
in the book of the chronicles of the
kings of judah and the rest of the
perverted persons who remained in the
days of his father a sir he banished
from the land there was then no king in
Edom only a deputy of the King
Jehoshaphat made merchants ships to go
to offer for gold but they never sailed
for the ships were wrecked at easy and
kiba then a huzzah
the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat let
my servants go with your servants in the
ships but Jehoshaphat would not and
Jehoshaphat rested with his father's and
was buried with his father's in the City
of David his father then she harem his
son reigned in his place
a Hazara the son of Ahab became king
over Israel in Samaria in the 17th year
of Jehoshaphat king of Judah and reigned
two years over Israel he did evil in the
sight of the Lord and walked in the way
of his father and in the way of his
mother and in the way of Jeroboam the
son of Nebat who had made Israel sin for
he served bail and worshipped him and
provoked the Lord God of Israel to anger
according to all that his father had
done
[Music]
you